Walden is an oddity in American letters. It may well be the oddest of our
distinguished oddities. For many it is a great deal too odd, and for many it is a
particular bore. I have not found it to be a well-liked book among my
acquaintances, although usually spoken of with respect, and one literary critic
for whom I have the highest regard can find no reason for anyone's giving Walden
a second thought. To admire the book is, in fact, something of an embarrassment,
for the mass of men have an indistinct notion that its author was a sort of
Nature Boy. I think it is of some advantage to encounter the book at a period in
one's life when the normal anxieties and enthusiasms and rebellions of youth
closely resemble those of Thoreau in that spring of 1845 when he borrowed an
ax, went out to the woods, and began to whack down some trees for timber.
Received at such a juncture, the book is like an invitation to life's dance,
assuring the troubled recipient that no matter what befalls him in the way of
success or failure he will always be welcome at the party—that the music is
played for him, too, if he will but listen and move his feet. In effect, that is
what the book is—an invitation, unengraved; and it stirs one as a young girl is
stirred by her first big party bid. Many think it is a sermon; many set it down
as an attempt to rearrange society; some think it none of these. It still seems
to me the best youth's companion yet written by an American, for it carries a
solemn warning against the loss of one's valuables, it advances a good argument
for traveling light and trying new adventures, it rings with the power of
positive adoration, it contains religious feeling without religious images, and
it steadfastly refuses to record bad news. If our colleges and universities were
alert, they would present a cheap pocket edition of the book to every senior
upon graduating, along with his diploma, or instead of it. Even if some senior
were to take it literally and start felling trees, there could be worse mishaps:
the ax is older than the Dictaphone and it is just as well for a young man to
see what kind of chips he leaves before listening to the sound of his own voice.
And even if some were to get no further than the table of contents, they would
learn how to name eighteen chapters by the use of only thirty-nine words and
would see how sweet are the uses of brevity. If Thoreau had merely left us an
account of a man's life in the woods or if he had simply retreated to the woods
and there recorded his complaints about society, or even if he had contrived to
include both records in one essay, Walden would probably not have lived a hundred
years. As things turned out, Thoreau, very likely without knowing quite what he
was up to, took man's relation to Nature and man's dilemma in society and man's
capacity for elevating his spirit and he beat all these matters together, in a
wild free interval of self-justification and delight, and produced an original
gourmet omelette from which people can draw nourishment in a hungry day. Walden
is one of the vitamin-enriched American dishes. If it were a little less good
than it is, or even a little less queer, it would be an abominable book. Even as
it is, it will continue to baffle and annoy the literal mind and all those who
are unable to stomach its caprices and imbibe its them. Certainly, the plodding
economist will continue to have rough going if he hopes to emerge from the book
with a clear system of economic thought. Thoreau's assault on the Concord society
of the mid-nineteenth century has the quality of a modern Western: he rides into
the subject at top speed, shooting in all directions. Many of his shots ricochet
and nick him on the rebound, and throughout the melee there is a horrendous cloud
of inconsistencies and contradictions, and when the shooting dies down and the
air clears, one is impressed chiefly by the courage of the rider and by how
splendid it was that somebody should have ridden in there and raised all that
ruckus. When he went to the pond, Thoreau struck an attitude deliberately. But
posturing was not to draw the attention of others to him but rather to draw his
own attention more closely to himself. "I learned this at least by my experiment:
that if one advances confidently in the direction of his dreams, and endeavors to
live the life which he has imagined, he will meet with a success unexpected in
common hours." The sentence has the power to resuscitate the youth drowning in a
sea of doubt. I recall my exhilaration upon reading it many years ago, in a time
of hesitation and despair. It restored me to health. And now in 1954 when I
salute Henry Thoreau on the hundredth birthday of his book, I am merely paying
off an old score—or an installment on it. 

Questions:
14. The writer's intent of the opening paragraph (lines 1-7) is mainly to:
   (A) Acknowledge that Walden is not an easy read.
   (B) Admit that Walden is not his favorite book.
   (C) Raise the reader's curiosity about what makes Walden an "oddity."
   (D) Prod readers into making up their own minds about the book's success.
   (E) Prepare readers for a devastating review of Thoreau's book.

15. The rhetoric in lines 10-11, describing what he did in the spring of 1845, implies mainly that Thoreau:
   (A) Had a specific plan of action in mind.
   (B) Was determined to make a name for himself.
   (C) Acted impulsively.
   (D) Had a devil-may-care attitude.
   (E) Had energy to spare.

16. In the second paragraph (lines 8-17), which of the following best characterizes the writer's position on the relevance of reading Walden at a young age?
   (A) The book is "like an invitation" (line 12). It can be accepted, ignored, or turned down.
   (B) Because he was a young man when he went into the woods, Thoreau serves as a role model for young readers.
   (C) Although not all young people are rebels, enough of them are to make Walden a kind of handbook for youth.
   (D) On principle, thoughtful young readers may be unable to accept Thoreau's ideas.
   (E) Thoreau offers youthful readers a plan for figuring out their place in the world.

17. By using the locution "began to whack down some trees" (line 11), the writer intends mainly to:
   (A) Illustrate that Thoreau was typical of young men going through "the normal" stages of life alluded to in line 9.
   (B) Support his assertion in line 7 that Thoreau was a "sort of Nature Boy."
   (C) Characterize the free-spirited personality of young Henry Thoreau.
   (D) Switch the tone of the passage from generally cerebral to more down-to-earth and physical.
   (E) Editorialize on how attitudes toward trees changed between 1845 and 1954, when the passage was written.

18. Which of the following best describes the writer's exigence in the passage?
   (A) The mixed messages that Walden sends to young readers.
   (B) Thoughtful commentary on how to live a productive and satisfying life.
   (C) The need for universal truths.
   (D) The serenity and grandeur that can be found in nature.
   (E) The dictum that to understand the world one must retreat from it.

19. In context, the third paragraph (lines 18-29) can be used to support which of the following claims about the writer's tone?
   (A) His tone when discussing Walden's function as a book for young people is hyperbolic.
   (B) His tone when mentioning religion is disapproving.
   (C) He uses a reverent tone when referring to colleges and universities.
   (D) When referring to felling trees, he adopts a sentimental tone.
   (E) He adopts an ironic tone when discussing Walden's table of contents.

20. By figuratively likening Walden to an "original gourmet omelette," (line 37) the writer intends to convey the idea that Thoreau's work:
   (A) May not suit all tastes.
   (B) Appeals mostly to sophisticates.
   (C) Is a basic treatment of the subject but tends to be effete.
   (D) Is comprised largely of a harmonious mix of quality ingredients.
   (E) Is more than a little pretentious.

21. The writer's opinions about Walden in lines 39-49 are primarily meant to:
   (A) Reiterate the wide disparities in readers' views of the book.
   (B) Confuse the reader as a means to stimulate curiosity.
   (C) Prepare prospective readers for a challenging but stimulating ride.
   (D) Entice readers with the promise of an unusual experience.
   (E) Argue that contradictions in the book don't impede understanding it.

22. Which of the following best describes the rhetorical effect of the writer's frequent use of the first person singular in this passage?
   (A) It establishes the writer as an authority on the subject of Walden.
   (B) It offers a personal perspective that makes the piece more engaging.
   (C) It raises questions about the writer's reliability as a judge of the book.
   (D) It reveals the writer's bias toward the subject of his essay.
   (E) It suggests that the writer is over-personalizing his subject.

23. Based on the context of the passage, which of the following statements would the writer most likely agree with?
   (A) Reading Walden at a young age is more about forming an opinion than understanding the book.
   (B) Walden should be studied by everyone, regardless of age.
   (C) Walden is more relevant to readers who have had some life experience.
   (D) The themes of Walden are not particularly applicable to modern times.
   (E) Walden is not a book for the faint of heart.

24. The water's purpose in the last paragraph (lines 50-58) can best be described as to:   
   (A) Vicariously relive his experience reading Walden.  
   (B) Clarify the author's initial motives for telling the story of his time in the woods, which changed over time.  
   (C) Express gratitude to Thoreau for writing an autobiographical story.  
   (D) Inspire his audience to read Walden because it had a life-altering effect long ago.  
   (E) Advise young readers that Walden offers wise counsel to help them overcome self-doubt.

Correct Answers:
14. C
15. C
16. A
17. C
18. B
19. E
20. D
21. C
22. A
23. C
24. D

My Answers:
14. C
15. C
16. A
17. C
18. A
19. A
20. A
21. A
22. C
23. E
24. D
